is rolling now, and we're talking to Alice Schreier.
So I guess the first question would be, you know, we hear all about the paradigm shift and the greater reliance on electronic stuff and the lesser reliance on printed books.
In your view, do books still matter in institutions and institutional libraries?
Well, I think in the...
In the largest sense, they certainly do.
I think it's very clear that research libraries are not only continuing to buy books and will continue to do so for a good time to come,
those of us who work in great research libraries are also aware that we have extraordinary collections that we have a continuing responsibility to preserve and they will have an enduring importance as
not only the materials for things that will be selected for future digitization, but also as the documentation of the past and the way that books were produced and have their own artifactual value above and beyond the content that may be digitized.
So it's both the content for future digitization and also the artifacts of book culture that we need to continue to preserve in their original form in a very selective way.
And that's a real challenge because we can't do it all.
Now, you're familiar, of course, with Cornell, which has been kind of out front in a lot of these areas.
They actually have done some work with using digitization as a form of preservation, and specifically in the area of some books.
I think that at this point, nobody is...
considering digitization a preservation medium except insofar as it reduces the need to handle fragile originals.
We already know enough about the digital medium to know that it has its own preservation issues, and archiving things in digital form is yet another challenge that the digital age has brought us.
And has not resolved.
No, not at all.
So I think that it can be said that there is a preservation component to making a decision to create a digital surrogate, because by doing that, you are enabling its use by a far wider audience and reducing the wear and tear on the original.
But in no way does that solve the problem of preserving the original or, in fact, of having a digital surrogate into the future unless you continue to think about what that requires.
What's the attitude of your university on the matter of deaccessioning books?
Well, we...
Let me think about that for a minute.
We certainly view ourselves as a research library that is building a collection not only for present research needs, but looking ahead to the future.
And while there are
Certainly volumes that are deaccessioned, an example might be a reserve book that was purchased in multiple copies for course reserve, and so we decide at a certain point in time
We don't need 15 copies of that title, you know, but we might keep one or two.
We deaccession assuming that there are no donor or other requirements to the contrary materials that we can improve if we get a better copy of something.
We get a gift that has in it a copy that's in better physical condition or more complete.
And we take a very, very conservative view toward sort of defining a duplicate.
But if one copy is in physical disrepair or...
incomplete and we get a better copy, we would deaccession the inferior copy.
But you'd certainly try to keep a copy of every book, right?
I mean, of every title.
That we've ever had?
Sometimes superseded, well, even superseded reference collections.
We're very fortunate in being a member.
I don't know if you're familiar with something called the, let me get the initials right,
the Center for Research Library, CRL.
That's a cooperative group, a membership group that is a repository for lesser-used research materials.
They collect things like...
They do a lot of microfilm purchasing, but it's also a place where sometimes libraries do send materials that they withdraw from their collections but want to be sure that a copy is available on interlibrary loan.
And so some libraries might send, for example, superseded reference materials.
You know, when a new directory comes out, do you really need to keep the superseded one?
Well, yes, there's a historical value to that.
Yes.
So some libraries would withdraw a copy of a reference book if they know there's a copy available in the Center for Research Libraries.
Chicago considers itself a research library, really a comprehensive research library.
So again, we would not do that because we see
research value in older volumes of books in print, for example.
So in terms of withdrawing copies, if something is completely beyond repair, if something is on brittle paper and has been, you know, there's no way it can be rebound, there's no way the artifact can be saved,
and again, I'm speaking of general collections materials, not something in special collections, I think there is a possibility that a photocopy might be made for circulating use and the original might be withdrawn.
I guess I'm trying to find some way to really, and I really haven't gotten it yet, but this whole matter of last copies, you know, where you do have libraries that...
deaccession titles and maybe for the obvious reasons that nobody's reading them or nobody's read them.
That wouldn't really be an obvious reason in a research library.
If a program, an academic program, is no longer taught here,
okay, say we built up a collection in an area that supported an academic program and that academic program is no longer taught, we might allocate less funding for new purchases in that area.
We would...
you know, look more to, say, interlibrary loan to, you know, support current use, but we wouldn't go and pull those books from the shelf.
You wouldn't.
No.
But, I mean, there are institutions who would, though.
That's right.
And I think that in this, as in so many other things, Nick, technology has really made it possible for those libraries to verify that there are other copies.
But to your knowledge, do they do that?
I mean, are there last copies that you think that are deaccessioned?
How would I go about finding something like that, would you think?
Is that something that OCLC could help me with, do you think?
That's such an individual library policy.
I mean, it's certainly not something we would do here because...
we would be on the very cautionary side of, I mean, we would really not be likely to be withdrawing things, you know, that, how would you, I mean, your question is really,
whether libraries check to see or whether there is a risk that a last copy could be withdrawn.
I guess that's what I'm trying to get at, if you have any knowledge on that.
That's a toughie, because I would assume that most libraries in the process of deaccessioning check OCLC.
That is certainly something we would do.
Now, and I can't speak for whether every library could do that.
So maybe a good way to get at that would be to try and talk to people at smaller libraries that might do more deaccession, more withdrawing.
Would you think, which of the libraries today that are more likely to be doing this, do you think?
Well, I think it would be a library that sees itself as serving more immediate readers' needs rather than defining itself as a research collection.
So you might find that in a public library, and that's obviously one of the issues in San Francisco.
Uh-huh.
Major issue.
And, you know, you might find it in smaller college libraries.
Yeah.
This is not something that's discussed at these various forums and seminars that you go to, though, I gather.
Well, let me just sort of make one distinction for you that may be helpful.
And, you know, I can't help you with this question, but the people who might be able to... That's what I'd love.
Yeah.
I mean, the reason I can't help you is that, and why I feel even uneasy talking...
except in very general terms about University of Chicago library policy, if you think about it, when something is in a special collection, I mean, it really has sort of passed.
By accepting something into special collections, we've really accepted a responsibility for it.
you know, sort of physical preservation, physical safekeeping, long-term retention.
And so any decision by me or any one of my colleagues to deaccessing from special collections really is guided by professional ethics and institutional policy.
And I think it's very unlikely that there's a risk
that something is going to be deaccessioned from a special collection that, you know, might be the last copy.
We really worry about these decisions very, very much.
And I don't think I'm really asking you to, I wouldn't expect to be quoting you on comments on what other institutions might be doing on this.
Right, and so I guess all I'm saying is that in the special collections community, the risk of deaccessioning
a last copy of something is not something that we would be likely to discuss because we agonize and do so much, I would think, all investigate so thoroughly things that we're even thinking about deaccessioning.
So, again, to sort of think about places that don't define themselves as libraries of record or research collections might be where that is more likely to happen.
But I have to tell you, did you see the Getty exhibition at the Morgan Library by chance?
Yeah.
It was really wonderful, wasn't it?
Well, there were three items there, and basically pride of place items.
that one of Brian Meggs' associates said to me are among his favorite, and each one of these, to use his word, was a discard from an American research library, one from the Folger, one from the John Carter Brown Library.
You know, I guess because it no longer fit into the collectory.
It never really did fit into the collecting scheme at Brown.
Well, and also the, yeah, I mean, I think we're talking about two different things.
We are, but I mean it's... We're talking about discarding and deaccessioning.
Exactly.
And so, again, I think it's really important.
I mean, I do think that libraries make...
need to make decisions about what did or did not, does or does not fit within their collecting scope.
You know, the smart ones do that very cautiously and conservatively.
And they don't throw them away, actually.
They get very good value for them.
I was talking about last week.
I understand.
I was just thinking, absolutely.
And I really wasn't blurring the distinction between the two.
It just kind of came to mind there.
So anyway, just to sort of go back to where we started a little bit, I think that
The commitment and the responsibility and the challenge of preserving book culture in book form and taking advantage of the digital age to enable it to be used by a broader public and in different ways.
is really something that we're all facing, but in no way is it going to diminish the importance of
the extraordinary print inventories of our nation's lives.
Now, without asking your comment on specifics, but if I were to tell you that a new university opened in Florida two years ago, and the incoming president said his hope and his goal was to have a library no larger than a telephone booth.
Mm-hmm.
How do you respond to something like that?
I'd want to know what their curriculum is and what they expect to be supporting in terms of education.
I mean, there is no doubt, Nick, that teaching and learning are being transformed in technology and that there are many things that can be taught and studied through distance learning or teaching.
You know, direct learning.
But this has a campus, by the way, with a goal of having, I think, 15 or 20,000 students with a library.
And in fact, there's a very cute story, and I'm including this in the book.
The woman who came in came from Brandeis.
Carolyn Gray is her name, a very capable woman.
And she said, well, that sounds fine, but we need books, is what she said.
And it happened that a liberal arts college in New Jersey closed and went out of business.
And they got the library, and they got it for a song, and a really good, nice academic library.
And so they opened with 150,000 books.
Then on the other hand, you go out to Cal State Monterey, and they put it all right there on the web.
They were going to open without a library at all.
And then there was, I don't know if you remember that story, they said there wasn't even a library planned.
Right, right.
Then there was an uproar, they put one in, but they've been open now for six years.
And to date, they're quite proud of the fact that they only have 38,000 books after six years.
Wow.
Well, you know, like I said, there are, I'm sure, many approaches to learning that can be supported by the web and electronic sources.
But I find it very difficult to believe that the full range of humanistic education can be successfully authored.
without access to books.
Well, I did an interview with Tony Grafton last summer, last July, and it's amazing.
Of course, Princeton, I guess, I forget the number, but I've used it.
It's been a while.
The number, they actually are able to record the number of checkouts per student and per faculty member in a year, and it's just an unbelievable number.
It's vast, but there is no doubt that what I worry about and I think all my colleagues worry about is that increasingly students do rely on
on what is available online.
And I think that educators have the responsibility to make sure they understand what a minute fraction of the world's knowledge is available online and in even their lifetimes ever will be.
And so part of the learning process, I think everybody is aware now, is critical evaluation of what's online.
But just like librarians used to teach how you evaluate and know a good reference book from a bad one or what are some of the critical thinking skills that you need to evaluate, something that you see in print, those same skills need to be translated to an Internet world in spades.
But I think that institutions that don't make it physically clear
that not everything that a student should be consulting is available online is really giving only half the story and not even half.
But we have definitely seen the trend, certainly in journals and in monographs, that I think their time is basically limited, wouldn't you think?
I think it will certainly come.
I mean, it is coming soon as then.
And I think that libraries and universities are...
helping that along by trying to form very creative partnerships between academic publishers and universities and libraries as a way to sort of counteract the spiraling costs of journals and to really get some collaborations going that in effect
put back into the academic arena the production of some scholarly journals.
I had a very interesting interview with Dr. Billington at the Library of Congress, and he feels that, of course, he's committed to books, as well he should be, being the Librarian of Congress.
But he also feels that one area where the electronic stuff will be most useful is in this, in the Ph.D.
theses.
And he said, the wonderful quote is, a lot of wonderful Ph.D.
theses do not get published, and a lot of lousy ones do.
And he thinks that, you know, this will have a very...
positive effect of really allowing the printed book to flourish and to maybe do for the printed book what photography did for the artists, the painters, you know, maybe did release them.
Well, it's interesting.
I mean, we have a collection, you know, we have many, many 17th and 18th century dissertations, highly obscure at the University of Chicago because at that time,
the publication of a dissertation was a requirement, you know, of getting a degree.
The publication was?
Yeah.
Really?
Yeah, I mean, most of them were published, you know, we would, today we would probably call them vanity publications.
I have no idea how many copies were published, but they were printed, let's say printed.
No kidding, really?
Yeah, mm-hmm.
And... When roughly was this?
I mean, has this come up pretty recently, or...?
I don't know when that was stopped.
I mean, ours certainly go, I mean, we have comprehensive collections or very large collections through the 18th century, and it seems like by the early 19th, maybe, things were changing.
I'm really not sure.
It would be an interesting thing to know.
But when you were talking about...
the Florida library that bought the collection of a, you know, New Jersey institution that was going out of business, I was reminded of the founding collection of the University of Chicago library, which, you know, if you think about institutional libraries and why Chicago is different, say, from Princeton or, you know, Yale or, well, you know, we were founded in
the early 1890s, so by the time Chicago was founded, the Eastern Ivy League schools were in business for 200 years and buying books as they came out.
And here you have this institution in the Midwest, the sole purpose of which is to be a research university on the German model.
And the founding president, you know, the university was supported by John D. Rockefeller and the founding president, William Rainey Harper, was
Smart enough to know that you couldn't found a research university without a great library.
So he went off to Germany and he bought the entire inventory of an antiquarian book.
Oh, I've got to have this.
Where can I get this?
It's a great story.
Is there something on it?
Actually, you know, do you use the web a lot?
Oh, I do, yeah.
Okay, let me see if I can.
There's nothing paradoxical about this, but yes, I do.
Of course there isn't.
I'm looking to see if I can get to the site quickly or if it's going to take a little longer for me to send you.
That's a great story because really what I'm in this very chapter that I'm looking at right now, by the way, the college in New Jersey was up so low.
or East Orange, New Jersey.
In May of 1995, they went bankrupt, mainly because of where it was.
I mean, just the demographics changed.
And I'm looking at it right now.
Faced with $12.5 million in debt and declining enrollment,
The school declared bankruptcy and turned all its assets, including a $125,000 volume library over to for liquidation.
So she came in and just got this wonderful library.
Well, I mean, what's ironic about this is that from...
from nothing or very little.
I mean, there was an old University of Chicago that had a small library collection, and there was a Baptist theological seminary that we merged with because it was a Baptist institution.
But by the time Chicago opened its doors, it was, I think, the fourth or fifth largest library in the country.
Wow.
Because of this one acquisition of the Berlin Collection.
And there is an essay about it on our webpage that we'll find and send to you.
What's so good about this is, I mean, when I was up in Toronto, Richard Landon told me about when York University was, and I'm looking at it right here,
This is in the 1960s.
The way they started building their libraries, they sent trucks out to antiquarian bookstores.
Well, we just brought it all back in one fell swoop, and it really was quite a while.
I'm looking at the place in this chapter.
I just called it up exactly where it would go.
Okay, well, I just found it on our website.
Oh, great.
Okay.
And I will cut and paste the URL and send it to you in an email.
That's probably the best way to do it.
That's wonderful, wonderful.
Okay.
So anyway, Chicago has always been... And the reason I was thinking about this story when I was talking about the dissertations, Nick, is that I like to call it our oldest backlog.
We still have...
some things from this Berlin acquisition of 1891 that have not been cataloged, and a large number of them are dissertations from the 17th and 18th century because they are very, you know, they're mostly by obscure authors and they're, you know, very costly to catalog.
And we just got a National Endowment for the Humanities grant
this year that will help us do some of that.
So you still intend to do it, even though it's over 100 years old at this point?
Absolutely.
So this is a backlog that goes back 100 years?
That's right.
That's wonderful.
And do you think that it will have scholarly applications at some point?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean, there are treatises in, you know, there's a lot of science
There's a lot of early science.
There's a lot of history of religions.
The NEH grant that we just got was for our history of religions collection and a lot of the dissertations that were in.
And when I say, you know,
that it's a backlog that goes back 100 years.
I mean, most of the Berlin collection is long catalogued, but there are some few pockets, and some of them do have these more obscure descriptions.
And you call it the Berlin collection, right?
It's called the Berlin collection because the antiquarian bookseller was located in Unter den Linden, the great street in Berlin, in East Berlin, and the...
bookseller, which was a vast bookseller, was called S. Calvary and Co.
Oh, this is all there, right?
I can't wait to go get it.
I can just absolutely, totally guarantee you that it will take pride and place in this chapter.
I mean, I think it's also for me and for us a way of saying that the University of Chicago was founded with the premise that
a great library is part of what we need to offer the kind of education that this institution is committed to.
So to go back to your question about what's my response to startup institutions that don't feel they need a library, well, they're obviously thinking that they're going to offer a different kind of education.
Right.
I don't want to underestimate the fact that higher education is changing.
Distance learning is clearly the wave of the future.
You think so?
Yeah, for a lot of reasons, and just demographics, economics.
Even at the research level that you're talking about?
No, I mean, when I say the wave of the future, I think that there will be vast improvements in the way distance education is offered.
but it's never going to compete with the kind of direct interpersonal interaction that a place like Chicago Pride is going on.
And in environments like that, contact with original sources is always going to be original research.
I mean, what do digital...
Online collections like what the Library of Congress, I don't know if Billington talked about, the National Digital Library.
They did, yeah.
And the University of Chicago is very involved in that.
We just got our second LC Ameritech Award.
You know, I don't know if he talked about that.
He didn't talk about that, but he did talk about the kinds of things that he wants digitized, basically the one-of-a-kind, non-book, unique kinds of things.
That's fine.
Photographs and monographs and whatever.
And that's all fine, but it's a selection.
Right.
And for both research and for teaching, I believe that there is a great loss in something that has been...
selected from a larger whole because the opportunity for discovery and the opportunity for making your own decision about what is trivial and what is significant has, in a sense, been winnowed down for you.
Now, you're in special collections.
Do you feel that it is essential for a serious scholar to, to use a phrase, to handle the goods?
Do you have to, do you have to?
It depends on what they're doing.
You know, I mean, I guess, I guess one of the notable recent examples is this, the Ulysses manuscript, you know, which was a Gabler who worked from facsimiles and made mistakes.
Yeah, I mean, for editorial purposes, I think absolutely, you know, you're not going to,
base conclusions on a digital surrogate, which can be, you know, unreliable or misleading.
On the other hand, there are many, you know, doing preliminary work with digital surrogates.
You know, I think that's a great benefit.
There's no reason not to take a vast collection of photographs and select from that what you want to view in the original form.
And then Roger Stoddard tells me of a circumstance where...
He purchased some Black Panther papers, and he said, you know, these were mimeographed things on the worst quality paper imaginable.
And he said, maybe, you know, and it's in a safe right now.
He doesn't know what he's going to do.
If you came in and requested to read these things, he'd have to turn you down right now.
He said he might have to broker with you.
Maybe you can get some money to make a copy, and then we'll make the copies available to you.
He said, but this more or less has what he perceives to be maybe one good pass through the copying machine.
And, you know, so then we have that particular kind of problem, don't we?
It's almost like a watercolor.
Yeah, well, that's sort of what I said before, you know, that it's a preservation medium insofar as it lets more people
view the surrogates without handling the originals when you would have to, you know, sort of close the door on the originals because they'd be used up.
On the other hand, I mean, here's another, I think, example of where even when teachers embrace the digital sort of stuff, they want their students to handle the goods.
Chicago runs something
It's the Newberry Library.
It's sort of based at the Newberry Library, but it's really run by the public schools.
It's called the Metro History Fair.
I like it.
And every year, students, you know, there's a theme, and students are expected to do original research.
We're talking what level students?
High school students.
Really?
No kidding.
And every year...
we get students who want to study the origins of atomic energy or, you know, the first atomic, you know, the Manhattan Project, and they come to use the Enrico Fermi papers at the University of Chicago.
That's amazing.
Now, you know, every year I worry, are these papers going to be used up?
And so we thought about, shouldn't that be...
a digital, you know, our sort of first priority for digitizing parts of these papers.
Well, the answer is the high school teachers require the students to use the originals.
And have they articulated why?
Well, because they want them to have the joy of firsthand content with these documents.
And do you see it when a youngster... It's mixed.
Some of them are obviously just fulfilling an assignment, and some of them are really very excited.
And a lot of it is dependent on... I mean, it's very labor-intensive for us because in order for them to use these materials safely and appropriately, it's a very labor-intensive effort for us to...
sort of have that transaction with each of us, each of the students.
And this is run out of the Newbery?
No, it's run by the Chicago Public Schools, but I think they, when I said it's run out of the Newbery, I mean, they have an office at the Newbery.
I see.
But it's really a Chicago Public School.
That's fascinating.
I wonder how they hit on that.
I don't know either, but it really happens every year, and some of them, you know, they...
We have the papers of Julius Rosenwald, who was a philanthropist who did a lot of wonderful, started a lot of schools in the South, and his papers are a favorite for students to use.
There are certain key collections that they sort of come back for, and I have to think, like Roger, each year, do I need to close off certain portions of these collections because they're just going to be used up?
But that's an example where digitizing them isn't going to help because the students need to see originals.
They want the artifacts.
It is interesting that you mentioned, I wonder why your founding, that was the founding president who went to?
William Rainey Harper.
Why did he pick Germany?
Was it just an opportunity that he knew of?
Well, I think he was traveling in Europe, and I think he was really looking for libraries, and whether he went there, he probably went there knowing that the firm was going to be going at it, was sort of on the block.
And he had the money to do it, too, which is good.
Well, it's the story in this article or the essay that I'll send you.
I can't wait to see.
Yeah, it's fabulous because basically he raised the money from Chicago philanthropists.
That's fantastic.
So it was really a civic...
to bring these books to Chicago, also a wonderfully controversial one because Harper was known to be a very, he was very flamboyant and a superlative fundraiser.
I mean, when Rockefeller gave money to found the university, it was sort of a matching grant.
So Harper had to raise a lot of money for the founding of the university, and then he had to raise some more for this book acquisition.
which actually included some medieval manuscripts.
I mean, it's just unbelievable what came with it.
So it was basically an unblocked purchase.
He really didn't have an opportunity to go through and cull and pull out the good stuff.
Oh, no.
He bought it all.
And as a matter of fact, there are huge discrepancies between how many tens or hundreds of thousands of items
It included.
And the count has never been reconciled.
I mean, we still don't know exactly how much came with it.
And this was when, approximately?
1891.
So it's over 100 years ago.
And it is a collection that has held up well.
It did make you a major research library.
Oh, absolutely.
And it's set...
the course of this library, in other words, the strengths of this library in
the sort of classical disciplines.
I mean, not only the classics themselves, but philology, philosophy, the humanistic, you know, the Reformation, the Renaissance, archaeology.
It's all in that collection.
You know, that's a great story.
I've not heard it before.
I don't think it's really had much circulation, really.
It really deserves it.
Oh, you've got it.
Yeah.
It's a great... Consider it done.
Yeah, terrific, because it's a good story.
That's why I said when you said, can we talk about the future, I'm probably going to help you more on that.
And that was just an entry into the conversation, you know, where it goes is where it goes.
And then it is interesting also that Chicago, basically, the university developed this whole great books concept that you see at St.
John's College down in...
Yeah, although that was, I mean, certainly associated with Chicago through Mortimer Adler, whose papers we hold, and his association with Robert Maynard Hutchins.
And it's still, I think, in some ways, it's a continuing tradition in the sense that Chicago's core curriculum...
is not a great book's curriculum, but it is very much focused on critical reading and critical thinking and reading sort of primary texts.
and forming one's own.
I won't quote you on this, but are English majors required to read Shakespeare?
And I won't quote you on this.
I'm just curious.
You'd hope so.
I mean, there are no survey courses at Chicago.
They are certainly required to take courses that...
introduce them to canonical literature, whether Shakespeare is always a given or not, I couldn't say, because there's a certain amount of discretion in what each of those core courses are.
You know, and I asked that question to Vartan when he was still at Brown, and he said, you know, you have to understand, he said, we, among our applicants every year, he said, we have 2,000 valedictorians and salutatorians.
He said, the individual who's going to come here
He said, if they're English majors and they don't take Shakespeare, the reason is probably they already know it upside down.
I would sort of answer in a different way.
Probably the line to get into Chicago Shakespeare courses is probably really, really wrong because David Bevington, who's a Shakespearean editor, is one of the most popular teachers at the University of Chicago, and he's just so magnetic that I think
There's not a student who wouldn't want to take it.
I can't imagine.
How can you possibly be an English major?
Did you say English major?
English, yeah.
Oh, forget it.
No, that's no contest.
That's not a problem.
I'm sorry.
For some reason, I thought, is every student required?
Oh, no, no.
I was talking about English majors.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
You know, I mean, there are any number of institutions now where you can get a degree.
in English literature without having been required to study to read Shakespeare.
Shakespeare, Chaucer, Milton, you know.
Well, I mean, again, you know, there are no survey courses here, but again, as a major, I think it'd be pretty unlikely that you wouldn't come in contact with them.
And, I mean, Chaucer, there's a great Chaucerian tradition at Chicago because the...
I don't know if you studied from John Manley and Edith Rickert, if you remember the version of the Canterbury Tales that really has been used throughout the 20th century was published by two Chicago English professors, John Manley and Edith Rickert.
Must be the one I read.
I would assume so.
And so Chaucer has always been
sort of a continuing interest.
And another neat story about the library to show you sort of how Chicago was formed and also one of my favorite stories in terms of how things, you know, people say, well, scholarship is going off in new directions.
Don't you have to buy all sorts of new things to support it?
And I think that really misses the point that scholars look at sources from different ways
and in different ways and with different eyes as they're investigating different topics.
It's not so much that you have to buy new sources, you have to make sure that they're described in a way that they support all possible avenues of investigation.
In the 30s, in the 20s or 30s, when this Chaucer edition was getting underway, there came on the market a collection
of the sort of family, do you know what muniments are, the sort of family papers?
Yeah, weren't there some, didn't Rosenbach pick up some muniments in England, I think?
Yeah, exactly.
Possibly.
I mean, it's just a fancy word for family archives.
Family archives.
The muniments, the family papers of a family named Sir Nathaniel, Sir Nicholas Bacon,
came on the market and basically the papers had been in the family since the 12th or 13th century and during the Depression they needed to put them on the market and so they were bought for Chicago because it was thought that they would be very useful in teaching students
how to read Elizabethan handwriting and to help in the production of this Chaucer edition.
And instead they became, I mean, they did that, but they also turned out to be this extraordinary resource for English social and legal and cultural history, tracing the development of English society from like 1250 years.
through the 16th and 17th centuries.
So things just get remined.
Who would you suggest among your colleagues could give me some information about this convention of having to publish your dissertation?
That's also pretty interesting.
Yeah, it really is.
I've not heard of that before.
Right.
But it actually had to be printed.
It had to be published.
It had to be... And they would accept a subsidy or vanity type... Well, the ones that I've looked at look like they must have been published in very small runs.
Right.
I mean, I want to say, you know, with a couple of hours, I don't think that's such a hard thing to get.
information about yeah just where would i look do you think yeah i let me give it some thought okay if i can help you on that and i'd be you know i'll make the calls on that and that's uh be happy to follow up on but that is an interesting point that i think um it is a book culture kind of a thing isn't it without question very much i wonder if tony grafton um
might have any insight because of his work on the footnote, it certainly... I think I'll send him an email and ask him.
You know, he might, and, you know, he's a Chicago Ph.D.
or Chicago...
undergraduate, actually, so you might know that it came up in conversations that we were talking, and I'll sort of muck around also and see what I come up with, but he really might have, he just might know that off the top of his head.
I'll bet he will, yeah.
Listen, I've kept you for an hour, and I usually think an hour is about right for a good start.
Let me go through and transcribe this
And then I'll get back to you and go over a few things with you so, you know, you don't feel that you'll be embarrassed by anything that you said.
I appreciate that opportunity.
And meanwhile, I will send you the URL for the Berlin Collection.
Oh, I can't wait to go look at it.
Thanks so much, Allison.
Okay, not at all, Nick.
Bye-bye.
Appreciate it.